{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2707
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red11\green76\blue180;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c1961\c38824\c75686;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17180\viewh10400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl313\sa213\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
## Forecast submission instructions\
State-level forecasts for WNV neuroinvasive diseases cases in each remaining calendar month of 2023 should be produced and submitted by their respective [monthly due dates](https://github.com/cdcepi/WNV-forecast-project-2023#timeline), beginning on April 30, 2023. Please note that these monthly state-level forecasts differ from the [2022 West Nile Virus Forecasting Challenge]({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/cdcepi/WNV-forecast-project-2023"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 https://github.com/cdcepi/WNV-forecast-data-2022}}), which requested annual county-level forecasts.\
\'a0\
This page includes information on how to submit forecasts. These instructions have been adapted from the [COVID-19 Forecast Hub](https://github.com/reichlab/covid19-forecast-hub) and are similar to those in the [2022 West Nile Virus Forecasting Challenge](https://github.com/cdcepi/WNV-forecast-data-2022).\
\'a0\
All forecasts should be [submitted directly](#Making-a-submission) to the [data-forecasts/](./) folder in this repository. Forecast data should be added to the repository through a pull request so that automatic data validation checks are run.\
\'a0\
These instructions provide detail about the [data format](#Data-formatting) as well as [validation](#Forecast-validation) that you can do prior to this pull request. In addition, we describe the\
[metadata](https://github.com/cdcepi/WNV-forecast-project-2023/blob/master/data-forecasts/METADATA.md) that each model should provide.\
\'a0\
See the [data-surveillance/](https://github.com/cdcepi/WNV-forecast-project-2023/tree/main/data-surveillance) folder for details on the reported WNV neuroinvasive case data. \
\'a0\
\'a0\
*Table of Contents*\
\'a0\
-\'a0\'a0 [Data formatting for submission](#Data-formatting)\
-\'a0\'a0 [Forecast file format](#Forecast-file-format)\
-\'a0\'a0 [Making a submission](#Making-a-submission)\
-\'a0\'a0 [Forecast data validation](#Forecast-validation)\
-\'a0\'a0 [Policy on late submissions](#policy-on-late-or-updated-submissions)\
\'a0\
\'a0\
## Data Formatting\
The automatic checks in place for forecast files submitted to this repository validates both the filename and file contents to ensure the file can be used in the visualization and ensemble forecasting.\
\'a0\
\'a0\
### Subdirectory\
Each subdirectory within the [data-forecasts/](data-forecasts/) directory has the format\
\'a0\
\'a0\'a0\'a0 team-model\
\'a0\
where\
\'a0\
-\'a0\'a0 `team` is the name of your team and\
-\'a0\'a0 `model` is the name of your model.\
\'a0\
Both team and model should be less than 15 characters and not include hyphens. The `model` should be unique from any other model in the project.\
\'a0\
Within each subdirectory, there should be a metadata file, a license file (optional), and a set of forecasts.\
\'a0\
\'a0\
### Metadata\
The metadata file should have the following format\
\'a0\
\'a0\'a0\'a0 metadata-team-model.txt\
\'a0\
using this [structure of the metadata file](https://github.com/cdcepi/WNV-forecast-project-2023/blob/master/data-forecasts/METADATA.md).\
\'a0\
\'a0\
### License (optional)\
By default, forecasts are released under a CC-BY 4.0 license. If you would like to release your forecasts under a different license, please specify a [standard license](../accepted-licenses.csv) in the `license` field of your metadata file. Alternatively, if you wish to use a license that is not in the list of [standard licenses](../accepted-licenses.csv), you may include a \
\'a0\
\'a0\'a0\'a0 LICENSE.txt\
\'a0\
file in your model directory. \
\'a0\
\'a0\
### Forecasts\
Each forecast file within the subdirectory should have the following format\
\'a0\
\'a0\'a0\'a0 YYYY-MM-DD-team-model.csv\
\'a0\
where\
\'a0\
-\'a0\'a0 `YYYY` is the 4 digit year,\
-\'a0\'a0 `MM` is the 2 digit month,\
-\'a0\'a0 `DD` is the 2 digit day,\
-\'a0\'a0 `team` is the name of your team, and\
-\'a0\'a0 `model` is the name of your model.\
\'a0\
The date YYYY-MM-DD is the [`forecast_date`](#forecast_date). For this project, the `forecast_date` is the date that the submission is due.\
\'a0\
The `team` and `model` in this file must match the `team` and `model` in the directory this file is in. Both `team` and `model` should be less than 15 characters, alpha-numeric and underscores only, with no spaces or hyphens.\
\'a0\
\'a0\
## Forecast File Format\
\'a0\
The file must be a comma-separated value (csv) file with the following\
columns (in any order):\
\'a0\
-\'a0\'a0 `forecast_date`\
-\'a0\'a0 `target`\
-\'a0\'a0 `target_end_date`\
-\'a0\'a0 `location`\
-\'a0\'a0 `type`\
-\'a0\'a0 `quantile`\
-\'a0\'a0 `value`\
\'a0\
No additional columns are allowed.\
\'a0\
Each row in the file is a single quantile forecast for a specific location. See the [template](./wnv_forecasting_template.csv) for an example.\
\'a0\
\'a0\
### `forecast_date`\
\'a0\
Values in the `forecast_date` column must be a date in the format\
\'a0\
\'a0\'a0\'a0 YYYY-MM-DD\
\'a0\
This is the date on which the forecasts were due to be submitted. `forecast_date` should correspond and be redundant with the date in the filename and is included here for internal completeness. \
\'a0\
\'a0\
### `target`\
Values in the `target` column must be the following character (string):\
\'a0\
\'a0\'a0\'a0 Monthly WNV neuroinvasive disease cases\
\'a0\
The monthly number of West Nile virus (WNV) neuroinvasive disease cases (confirmed and probable following the [WNV neuroinvasive disease case definition](https://ndc.services.cdc.gov/case-definitions/arboviral-diseases-neuroinvasive-and-non-neuroinvasive-2015/)) reported to [ArboNET](https://wwwn.cdc.gov/arbonet/Maps/ADB_Diseases_Map/index.html) from each state in the contiguous United States in 2023.\
\'a0\
\'a0\
### `target_end_date`\
Values in the `target_end_date` column must be a date in the format\
\'a0\
\'a0\'a0\'a0 YYYY-MM-DD \
\'a0\
This is the date of the end of the forecast period. Each forecast submission should include all `target_end_date`s that have not yet occurred from the set: 2023-05-31, 2023-06-30, 2023-07-31, 2023-08-31, 2023-09-30, 2023-10-31, 2023-11-30, and 2023-12-31.\
\'a0\
\'a0\
### `location`\
The `location` column consists of the forecasted state, including spaces between words within the state name. The easiest way is to accomplish this and ensure that all forecasted locations match the expected forecast locations is by matching the format in the [location file](../data-locations/locations.csv).\
\'a0\
### `type`\
Values in the `type` column should all be the following string: "quantile".\
\'a0\
\'a0\
### `quantile`\
Values in the `quantile` column are in the format\
\'a0\
\'a0\'a0\'a0 0.###\
\'a0\
This value indicates the quantile for the `value` in this row.\
\'a0\
Teams must provide the following 23 quantiles:\
\'a0\
\'a0\'a0\'a0 c(0.01, 0.025, seq(0.05, 0.95, by = 0.05), 0.975, 0.99)\
\'a0\
\'a0\'a0\'a0 ##\'a0 [1] 0.010 0.025 0.050 0.100 0.150 0.200 0.250 0.300 0.350 0.400 0.450 0.500\
\'a0\'a0\'a0 ## [13] 0.550 0.600 0.650 0.700 0.750 0.800 0.850 0.900 0.950 0.975 0.990\
\'a0\
### `value`\
Values in the `value` column are non-negative real numbers indicating the \'93quantile\'94 prediction for this row. This is the inverse of the cumulative distribution function for the `target`, `location`, and `quantile` associated with that row.\
\'a0\
\'a0\
## Making a submission\
\'a0\
### Initial submission\
\'a0\
To prepare for the initial submission, fork this repository and clone it to your computer/work station/etc. In the forked repository you created, make a [subdirectory](https://github.com/cdcepi/WNV-forecast-project-2023/blob/main/data-forecasts/README.md#subdirectory) for your team in the [data-forecasts/](./) folder following the subdirectory [naming convention](https://github.com/cdcepi/WNV-forecast-project-2023/blob/main/data-forecasts/README.md#subdirectory). This is where you will place all your forecasts, metadata, and optional license files.\
\'a0\
Use a [pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request) to create your submission. Open a pull request from your forked repository to the original repository. This will initiate merging your changes into the main repository. With the pull request, automatic data validation checks on file format and content are run. More information on making a pull request can be found [here](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-make-your-first-pull-request-on-github-3/).\
\'a0\
The initial submission should include the forecast for April 30 and the metadata file describing the model. An optional license file can also be included. Note, validations will fail if there are other commits than just these files in the pull request. Teams are encouraged to submit early for the initial submission to work out the kinks of pull requests and validations. Submissions can be updated at any point prior to the submission deadline. Note that if you submit more than a day before the first submission deadline (April 30, 2023), the automatic validations will flag the submission, but this is not a problem assuming the rest of the checks pass successfully.\
\'a0\
When a pull request is open, you can add/modify files in the pull request by pushing changes from your forked repository. This will allow you to address any problems found during the validation checks. Automatic checks run after each push so you can check if you were able to resolve the problems listed.\
\'a0\
Common reasons for a failed pull request: Excel changing the date format upon saving the .csv, misspelled column headers or keys in the metadata.\
\'a0\
We will merge in open pull requests after each submission deadline.\
\'a0\
\'a0\
### Additional submissions\
Forecast submissions for the May through September deadlines, as well as updated metadata (when applicable), should also be made through pull requests. Those submissions should use the respective submission deadline in the file names and be placed in the same team-model subdirectory as the prior submissions.\
\'a0\
For additional submissions, indicate any modifications to the model and/or data under the `methods_long` variable in the [metadata](https://github.com/cdcepi/WNV-forecast-project-2023/blob/main/data-forecasts/METADATA.md#methods_long) file.\
\'a0\
\'a0\
## Forecast validation\
\'a0\
To ensure proper data formatting, automatic validations are run on all pull requests to\
`data-forecasts/`. \
\'a0\
\'a0\
### Pull Request Forecast Validation\
When a pull request is submitted, the data are validated through [Github Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions) which runs the tests present in [the validations repository](https://github.com/reichlab/covid19-forecast-hub-validations). The intent for these tests are to validate the requirements above.\'a0 Please [let us know](https://github.com/cdcepi/WNV-forecast-project-2023/issues) if you are facing issues while running the tests.\
\'a0\
\'a0\
## Policy on late or updated submissions\
To ensure that forecasting is done in real-time, all forecasts are required to be submitted to this repository by the listed [deadlines](https://github.com/cdcepi/WNV-forecast-project-2023#timeline). Late forecasts will not be accepted.\
}